testing testing one two three four five six seven eight this is monday the 19th of february sitting in what i'd call the living room uh dr mrs spencer bayne's home in bryan about to have the pleasure and honor of recording at least some of his memories
of his student days at Texas A&M.
Spencer, to begin with, describe family background, what did parents do for a living, where'd you grow up, where'd you go to high school, life before A&M.
All right, Haskell.
Background, Peter Henry Rowe was an uncle of mine in the class of 1917.
I never knew.
my uncle.
But he was a student of Giesecke and some of the old timers in the electrical engineering business.
And I always knew from that association, as I say, I never knew him, but he was a favorite son of my grandfather and of my
grandmother and and his brother Jack Rowe and his sister Grace Rowe who was my mother always spoke so highly of Peter that I decided I was going to Texas A&M very early in my life and so it was rather predestined that I would go to A&M and let's see more background my father was an architect
and he worked in San Antonio, Texas, where I lived and grew up mostly.
In 1933, I believe it was, we moved to Henderson, Texas, because the architectural business had gone into a very slack period.
Mr. Will Noonan was my father's boss,
He kept that on as long as he could, and they designed all sorts of schools and public buildings and that sort of thing all over the state.
I would travel with my father to look at the construction projects and to visit the various parts of the state.
So I lived in Henderson, Texas for about three months was all because
Although my father wanted to live there and continue working for the company that he was working for, my mother had no idea at all of living anyplace else besides San Antonio.
So my father reluctantly moved back to San Antonio.
And he opened a bookstore on Houston Street, sort of cat-a-corner to Wolf and Mark's
department store.
He picked the bookstore business because his father-in-law, George Roe, was already in the book business in the Roe Book Store on Commerce Street in San Antonio.
The first original Roe Book Store was at the corner of Commerce and St. Mary's.
They sold that property, which they owned, to Alamo National Bank and moved about a block and a half away and opened there.
And then the city of San Antonio had had a big flood in 1921 or thereabouts, and they decided to build a...
a pathway for any future floods and they would cut a canal from the bend in the San Antonio River at just about where it hit Commerce Street past the Plaza Hotel.
And so the city of San Antonio bought my grandfather's bookstore, and they moved down the street again across the alley from the Alamo National Bank.
And then later on, Alamo National Bank bought them out there and built a big parking garage.
So I got some experience in the book business with both my father
And with my grandfather, I would sell school books in my grandfather's store.
My grandmother was the cashier, and she would save every Indian head penny that came along.
And she had shoeboxes full of Indian head pennies, which are worth at least a whole $0.50 or a dollar apiece now.
But at any rate, the school rushes were a great time to be busy.
and we made lots of book sales and it had to last for the whole part of the year because the rest of the year the book business was not too great.
My dad was also in the coin and stamp business and he sold coins and stamps to Will Noonan and others that had been in the business for many years.
Eh, not Will Noonan.
Brock.
Mr. Brock, anyway.
They were in that book business, not book business, in the stamp and coin business for many, many years.
Which high school did you go to?
I graduated from Thomas Jefferson High School, which was out on Donaldson Avenue in the northwest part of San Antonio.
We had moved to this new house in about 1932, about the time everybody crashed.
And my mother wanted to come back to her new house.
It was on Club Drive.
And we had a very, very nice group of people around us.
Alfred Lee and his brother, Royal B. Lee, were a couple of our neighbors.
J.E.
Melanson was another great neighbor and later both of those people were upperclassmen of mine at A&M in Sea Battery Coast Artillery.
I guess my earliest recollection of A&M was arriving with a footlocker.
to be carried upstairs to the assigned room.
And once I'd carried it upstairs and had gotten a few more deep knee bends and push-ups done and carried a few more foot lockers for upperclassmen up, well, then we finally had a great night's rest because you couldn't do anything else.
Had you visited A&M before coming to enroll?
I don't recall that I had.
What impression did you have of A&M before you got here?
What had you heard about it?
What did you think about it?
Well, I knew it was a men's school only, and I was of the opinion at that particular point in my life that girls and an education didn't mix.
And then later on, of course, I found out that girls are part of an education and a very important part.
So my attitude on girls at A&M changed.
When you came with that footlocker, how did you get here?
My father brought me in a car.
What did you have in that footlocker?
Had blue jeans and underwear and shoes and all that sort of thing.
Of course, we then transferred to the Army
clothes.
We got issued shirts and pants and belts and we immediately started in onto our military science courses because we all wanted to be officers later on and we wanted to be in the ROTC and
So that's another reason we came to A&M.
I wanted to be an officer in the Reserves.
And this was the fall of?
1939.
Did your mother or your father give you any special advice as you were leaving that you remember?
Just do good.
Did you know at that time what you thought you wanted to major in?
Well, I knew I wanted to be an engineer, and I thought I wanted to be a mechanical engineer rather than an electrical engineer, which was my Uncle Peter's area.
I think I wanted to be, I knew, I know I wanted to be a mechanical engineer because Alfred Lee was my neighbor and so J.E.
Melanson was a neighbor and they both had been in the mechanical engineering program.
I lived in C Battery Coast Artillery.
Now how did you, how did you get into Coast Artillery?
How did you learn that was your outfit?
Alfred Lee and J.E.
Melanson.
Oh, okay.
In advance.
They were from San Antonio, and Sea Battery Coast was a San Antonio battery in the Coastal Artillery.
E Field Artillery was the San Antonio Battery and the Field Artillery part of the ROTC at A&M.
They lived in the new dorm area where there were 12 new dormitories.
I lived in Hart Hall where there was A Battery, B Battery, and C Battery, and D Battery.
And then there were several other batteries that lived in Bazell across the military walk.
Down at the end of Military Walk was our favorite auditorium.
Guyon?
Guyon Hall, which I might as well jump ahead a little bit.
At graduation, my parents came to see me get my degree.
And they were sitting in the audience as I walked across the stage to get my degree.
I got this tube and I went back and sat down and opened up my tube and in it was not my degree but a bill for $1.57 for a broken window in the dormitory that they held me responsible for.
But nobody told me in advance that if I paid that I could get my degree.
They just told me I had to come pay it then I could get my degree.
But at any rate, that was rather a disappointment for my parents to come all the way from San Antonio and not see a degree.
What other, in terms of the physical campus, what other important structures were there for a freshman to notice on the campus?
Oh, Sabisa.
Sabisa was the mess hall, of course, and everybody had to march to
Three meals a day, down military walk, have a military formation and march as a unit.
At that time, we would sit at assigned tables and if you wanted any gun wadding, you had to, that was bread, and you had to ask for it by its proper name, gun wadding.
If you wanted any dessert, you had to ask for kush.
Were there kush questions?
There were always kush questions, and you had to go through a certain hand operation to qualify for a serving of kush.
What were some of the kush questions you remember?
Oh, let's see.
I don't remember.
Describe the routine in your outfit
of what it was like the first few weeks for a new fish in your outfit.
A new fish always did calisthenics first thing in the morning, and we did quite a few deep knee bends whenever we didn't please an upperclassman in every aspect.
I mean, it just seemed like
get down and do a few knee bends and do a little duck walking up and down the steps and do a few push-ups, just as limbering up, you know, just to kind of get your mind going good.
And we had to keep the
upperclassmen rooms cleaned and we had to bring them breakfast in the morning many times.
We had to take their mail to the post office which was at the North Gate and behind Sabisa Hall.
So bringing a bottle of milk and a few sweet rolls out from the mess hall was not, is not condoned by the
by the administration, but we would do it anyway.
How would you hide the milk?
Well, you could hide it in your socks.
It was a small pint bottle.
You'd just pull the socks out and stick it in there and put the sweet rolls around your belt or someplace like that.
But if you didn't have the meal out there and properly displayed and everything, you did a few more knee bends and a few more pushups and that sort of thing.
Did the paddle get used much in your outfit?
The paddle got used quite a bit.
For what shortcomings?
What crimes?
For the same thing.
Not being on time with the breakfast, not getting the mail delivered at the proper time.
If they didn't get some mail once in a while, they got a little upset, too.
And we'd have to write letters to their girlfriends and their parents.
That was a lot of fun, too.
At any rate, we had our own esprit within our class.
What was your outfit's nickname?
C Battery Coast.
Oh it didn't have a?
We didn't have a nickname.
Oh okay.
You were starting to say though- We would do drowned outs among our own class, you know.
We'd sneak over to Bazell and drowned out some of our good friends.
Jim Jennings was one of them.
oh golly i can't remember what kind of punishment did somebody get if they got caught as part of a drownout deep knee bands and and some more push-ups and that sort of thing can you uh recall some of the favorite uh tricks or are uh good bull stunts y'all pulled off oh heck yeah man
Of course, if you walked into the dormitory and if you happened to be over a hallway window and you didn't look up and see that trash can full of water coming down, you got drowned out right in front of your own dormitory.
Then one of the favorite tricks that was sort of, it wasn't a favorite trick, but it was the favorite stunt that any of us pulled on anybody, I think, and it sort of became one of the legends
in our outfit between us and D Battery Coast, which was Bum Bright's outfit.
And we tied a wire between the bottom ramp on J ramp to the top floor on A ramp, which was D Battery's.
And we tied this wire in the center of the screen
on Bumbright's window.
And that night we hung a skyrocket on this wire and lit it and it went up the wire and went through the screen, broke the glass window, chased Herb Schiff and Bumbright around the room and lit on their bed and burned their blanket.
So we really became quite famous from that.
Did you all get caught?
Oh, no, we never got caught.
But George Thompson
who was a mechanical engineer, favorite, Alphabet Thompson, he knew that we did it.
But he didn't tell anybody.
Was he a student then?
No, he was a professor.
Oh, he was already on the team.
John George Hatch Thompson.
Yes, yes.
Alphabet Thompson.
Yes.
But he didn't turn us in.
Your official lady.
My old lady was Jo Fisher.
And also David Meyer.
Describe them and the relationship you all developed.
Well, Joe Fisher was from Victoria, Texas.
David Meyer was from San Antonio, Texas.
David Wilson Meyer, M-E-Y-E-R. And I don't think he was Jewish, but we called him A.B.
And A.B.
would get incensed at the fact we'd call him A.B.
But he was a great guy and a great tennis player.
I liked to play tennis with David very much.
And Joe Fisher was just a wonderful big old Swede.
And what was the routine for y'all at night in the room?
Three in a room, how did you?
Three in a room.
That was quite a few to begin with.
And later on, it was two in a room.
But for the first
The first few months, or maybe even for the first year, it was a whole, I mean, three people in a room.
And we'd have to evacuate whenever there was a dance for the senior ring dance or the junior dance or that sort of thing.
The girls would move into Hart Hall and we would just evacuate.
Where did you all then sleep?
We just doubled up with other people.
In another dorm?
In another dorm.
Sleep on the floor?
Sleep on the floor.
If people were going to be out of town, we'd sleep in their beds and that sort of thing.
But Ralph Ricks was another one we drowned it out quite a bit over in Bazell Hall.
all these guys turned out to be real good, close friends, you know.
I mean, the bananas, the ripe bananas in the seniors' boots got us in trouble sometimes, and we'd get in trouble because we would be hauled out of town by some of the sophomores.
And if we squealed on them, well, the sophomores would get us.
Describe that fall as you look back on it academically.
What courses did you take, and were there some important professors and courses as you look back that you had that first year?
Well, that first year we had slide rules as one of our courses.
We had to learn to use the slide rule.
We had mathematics, and we took calculus.
And we had, well, I guess we had Texas history, because Texas history was very important in high school as well as in college.
We had military science and that sort of thing as one of our courses.
We had to learn the French 75 gun, as I recall.
Who were some teachers you remember?
Oh, guys.
Old Sarge.
I don't recall.
I can't remember his name right now.
What about in English or math?
In math, Abbott.
Well, he was history, wasn't he?
No, John Paul, English.
English, okay.
Well, wait a minute.
I had Brooks Cofer for my English problem.
And as a matter of fact, I got two Cs in my freshman year from Brooks Cofer as my English professor.
They were the only two Cs that I made in my whole time at Texas A&M University.
And his son, D.B.
Cofer, Jr., always reminds me that, well, his father was very gracious, and he gave me two Cs.
Anyway.
Describe.
I won a slide rule contest in the freshman year and got a watch for that.
I won a math contest, or second.
I came in math.
In the math contest, I came in second, and Bill Atkinson, who was later with the State Department, I believe, he was an electrical engineer.
He got first place, and I got second place.
Did you and your buddies, did you all expect to be capable of handling the A&M curriculum?
Were there a lot of Aggies that were scared they couldn't make it?
We did coach people in slide rule, and we coached each other.
And in your high school class, do you remember where you ranked?
I don't remember where I ranked.
Because there weren't any ACs.
I was in the Honor Society, along with Adolph Specia and some of the other guys from San Antonio.
And you here, if you made only two C's, then you never were close to flunking out or anything like that.
Never.
Describe the routine of class day.
What time did you get up and go to class?
What happened?
How did you all behave in class and so forth?
Well, we had to get up and march to the Reveille.
We got up at Reveille.
The bugle blew at the
bugle stand that was out by the YMCA building and Law and Puryear were over there.
And then we would go to breakfast and come back.
At Sabisa?
At Sabisa.
And then we'd come back and we would clean the upperclassmen's room
see that he ate his breakfast well and was pleased and so forth and so on.
Then we would get ourselves ready to go to class, and we'd go to class.
And how did you and your buddies behave in class?
We were well-behaved.
I never will forget, of course, freshman chemistry, because we were in a very large group in an auditorium in the old chemistry building.
And of course, you never will forget hydrogen sulfide as one of the test agents in some of your analytical chemistry.
But we were very conscientious.
Did you go to class regularly?
We went to class regularly.
We didn't skip.
I guess some guys every now and then would have a good reason to skip.
I think once in a while somebody might answer here for somebody that wasn't there.
Did you all ever attempt any jokes, pranks in class?
I don't recall.
I haven't heard of any.
I don't recall any.
Did anybody pull the old thing, look to your left, look to your right, there's only going to be one of you here in two years?
I don't recall that either.
That threat.
I think that's been overdone.
I think so.
During that first year, did you begin to realize that you were reasonably well prepared for college, that your high school had...
Yes.
Thomas Jefferson High School had some excellent teachers.
Mary E. Hickman was my mathematics teacher and she got me started in geometry and
plane geometry and solid geometry and that sort of thing.
And I just, I remember Mr. Searcy, he was also a math professor.
And of course, our dean of students was Ivey, Mr. Ivey.
And I also recall getting kicked out of school the last day because we violated the
the uniform code and we all went barefooted to school and that sort of thing.
So we left school and we went swimming at San Marcos, I mean, at New Braunfels, rather.
We just had a great ball.
It was great getting kicked out of school.
But here at A&M, how did you and your buddies, how did you all register for class after that first semester?
Was it in Sabeasa?
How did you all sign up for classes?
We signed up for classes, I think it was in the old bookstore.
I think it was in the old bookstore.
And looking back on the first year or two, were there some courses that were really important to you?
Well, I think machine design, of course, under Roy Wingren.
Was he a fine teacher?
He was a fine teacher.
Describe his way of teaching.
He would give you the part to design and he'd hand it to you and let you put in the fillets and put in the processes that you would think would be required to manufacture the device.
And then he'd come around and show you that you had forgotten
to consider this or that, and it was well done.
He wouldn't be so critical that you'd just completely lose all confidence, but he would use his teaching experience and his pattern design and
foundry and all those other good things.
At that time, we took foundry and we took welding and we took machine design and machine processing of lathes and that sort of thing.
In welding, electrical welding, first thing the prof did was have each of us stick our finger in a socket, an electric socket.
And if you don't push it in too hard, you just get a tingle.
And he wants you to know that if electricity won't hurt you unless under certain conditions like standing in water or something like that, it could kill you.
All right, let's see here now.
We did our ROTC down at the... Yeah, describe that.
We would actually train as...
as cannoneers, and we'd take dummy rounds of ammunition and ram them home.
Did you all fire?
No.
Oh, you didn't ever fire the artillery?
Never did.
And we were supposed to, between our junior and senior year, go to
a summer camp for two weeks to qualify for our commission.
We'll get to that in a little bit, though.
During that first fall, the war started in Europe.
Did you and your buddies talk about that much?
Did you listen to the radio?
Oh, yeah.
We sure knew what was going on.
A lot of us would have to study with the radio on because there was so much noise, and otherwise you couldn't concentrate.
What did y'all, you remember what you listened to?
Music mostly.
Okay.
But you always got the news along with that.
Did y'all talk about whether or not that war might involve the United States and involve y'all?
Oh, sure.
We talked about all those things, world events and submarines and minesweepers and military transports and
We were very involved as far as current events and the current involvement in the World War II.
Now, y'all, you did your military drills in the afternoon where?
Where did y'all drill?
Behind the petroleum engineering building was the